.TH alff.conf 5

.SH NAME
alff.conf \- The main configuration for A Linux Firewall Framework

\" SYNOPSIS %{{{
.SH SYNOPSIS
The
.I alff.conf
file is a configuration file for A Linux Firewall Framework (alff).
.I alff.conf
contains basic firewall configuration options regarding your firewall type,
the network environment and your firewall machines.
\" %}}}

\" FILE FORMAT {{{
.SH FILE FORMAT
.PP
The main configuration of alff is stored in XML format.
This format was chosen to simplify config handling within the alff perl modules.
A simple API for reading confiugration options via shell is included.

.PP
The alff_config document type definition resides in the external entity
"alff_config.dtd"; this is normally stored in /usr/share/alff.
The configuration file should contain the following structure:

.nf
	<?xml version="1.0"?>
	<!DOCTYPE alff_config SYSTEM "/usr/share/alff/alff_config.dtd">
	<alff_config>
	...
	</alff_config>
.fi

.SS <alff_config>
.PP 
This is the top level element for the alff configuration an can contain options, vlan and machine elements in any order.
The order options, vlan, machine is prefered by the author but not neccessary.

.SS <options> \" {{{
.PP
This element contains global configuration options.
.P
The fw_type element is mandatory, the elements allow_icmp, allow_traeroute_udp,
default_chain_policy and dhcp_server are optional.

.TP \" fw_type{{{
fw_type 
Specify the type of this firewall.
This system can by run on a bridging firewall which is bridging a trunk 
with 802.1Q-Vlans (e.g. when using Cisco[tm] hardware) or as a routing firewall.
The bridge mode is not really tested and working for now, be warned.
The keywords are "bridge" and "router".
\" }}}

.TP \" allow_icmp {{{
allow_icmp
This option is used by the handleICMP plugin and controls which ICMP packets will 
be able to pass your firewalls. 
Possible options are: all, basic and none.
All means, that all icmp packets can pass your firewall unfiltered,
in basic mode aff will allow allow echo-{request,reply}, destination-unreachable/*,
source-squench, time-exceeded/*, parameter-problem/* (ICMP types: 0,3,4,8,11,12)
to pass the filter and none will block all ICMP.
Be warned: You might get into trouble if you block all ICMP traffic...
The default value is all.
\" }}}

.TP \" allow_traceroute_udp {{{
allow_traceroute_udp
This option is read by the handleTracerouteUdp plugin and controls wether
traceroute packets(udp packets to ports 33434 - 33523) can pass your firewalls
in any direction. This does not influence traceroute using ICMP packets.
The default value is yes.
\" }}}

.TP \" default_chain_policy {{{
default_chain_policy
This option is read by the classifyInterVlanTraffic plugin and controls which
target will be used in vlan_to_vlan chains which do not have any configuration.
See the 
.BR classifyInterVlanTraffic (7)
plugin man page for further information about configuration of this plugin.
Valid values are ACCEPT, DROP, REJECT, LOG or a self defined chain, which has to be created before classifyInterVlanTraffic is invoked.
See /etc/plugin.d/POLICY for the intended order of plugin execution.
\" }}}
\" }}}

.SS <vlan> \" {{{
This element contains information about your networks.
Each network alff should know of has to be put into a vlan block.
The term vlan is just a name for a network segment with one or more ip networks. It does not need to be a 802.1q vlan.
The name vlan was chosen because the initial purpose of alff was to filter between a number of 802.1q vlans which include one ip network each.

Each vlan element has to in include the elements id and at least one network.
It may include interface, desc, filtered, trusted or (a) self defined security_class(es).

.TP \" id {{{
id
This option specifies the id of this vlan, which will be used as identifier in alff.
It can be either a numeric id (maybe you want to represent the 802.1q vlan ID) or a
string which describes this vlan. It is wise to use only ASCII characters.
\" }}}

.TP \" network {{{
network
The network option contains information about the ip network(s) which this vlan represents.
Each network element should be in CIDR format (e.g. 192.168.0.0/24).
\" }}}

.TP \" interface {{{
interface
The interface to which this vlan is connected. (e.g. eth0 or bond0.42)
This is optional. If specified alff will check if packets from the ip
network(s) of this vlan come in on the correct interface.
\"}}}

.TP \" security_class {{{
security_class
The the security_class element can be used to create a logical view on your network
and splitting your vlans into zones.
A security_class name can be used in a service configuration to allow access to a
service from a (number of) vlan(s).
See
.BR alff_services (7)
for further information about service handling in alff.
You can specify multiple security_classes per vlan and can group several vlans logically
by putting them into the same security_class.
\" }}}

.TP \" filtered {{{
filtered
This is a built-in security_class which means that a vlan is behind your firewall.
This information is used when creating a vlan to vlan matrix or can be used as an access level for services.
See
.BR classifyInterVlanTraffic (7) alff_services (7)
for further information about vlanto vlan matrix generation and service handling in alff.
You have to set every vlan which is behind your firewall to filtered to make classifyInterVlanTraffic do what you want!
\"}}}

.TP \" trusted {{{
trusted
This is another built-in security_class of alff which means, that the machines in this vlan are kind of trusted.
It does not include 'filtered' as one might want to set a vlan to 'trusted' which is outside your own network.
This information can be used as another access level for services.
See
.BR alff_services (7)
for further information about service handling in alff.
\" }}}

\" }}}

.SS <machine> \" {{{
This element contains information about your firewall machines.
Each machine element has to include the elements, id, hostname and ip.
It may include desc.

.TP \" {{{
id
This option specifies the id of this firewall machine, which will be used as an identifiere in alff.
It can be either a numeric id or a string (e.g. the hostname) It is wise to use ASCII characters only.
The machine id is mainly use by
.BR alff-push-rules (7)
\" }}}

.TP \" {{{
hostname
Specify the FQDN hostname of this firewall machine.
\" }}}

.TP \" {{{
ip
Provide the IP address of this firewall machine.
Alff will use this IP address to connect to your firewall, to prevent DNS attacks and errors.
\"}}}

.TP \" {{{
desc
You may provide a description about this firewall machine.
This is optional and only for humans :)
\" }}}

\" }}}

\" }}}

.SH EXAMPLE CONFIGURATION FILE \" {{{
.nf
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE alff_config SYSTEM "/usr/share/alff/alff_config.dtd">

<alff_config>
    <!-- Global options for alff //-->
    <options>
        <fw_type> router </fw_type>

        <allow_icmp> basic </allow_icmp>

        <allow_traceroute_udp> yes </allow_traceroute_udp>

        <default_chain_policy> REJECT </default_chain_policy>

        <dhcp_server> 192.168.42.5  </dhcp_server>
    </options>

    <vlan>
        <id> 42 </id>
        <network> 192.168.42.0/24 </network>
        <desc> my Home network </desc>
        <interface> eth0 </interface>
        <filtered> yes </filtered>
        <trusted> yes </trusted>
    </vlan>

    <vlan>
        <id> 23 </id>
        <network> 192.168.23.0/23 </network>
        <desc> my hacking lab network </desc>
        <filtered> yes </filtered>
    </vlan>

    <machine id="fw1">
        <hostname> fw1.example.com </hostname>
        <ip> 192.168.1.2 </ip>
        <desc> My main firewall </desc>
    </machine>

    <machine id="firewall2">
        <hostname> firewall2.example.com </hostname>
        <ip> 192.168.1.3 </ip>
        <desc> My backup firewall </desc>
    </machine>
</alff_config>
.fi
\"}}}

.SH NO WARRANTIES \" {{{
This program is distributed in the hope that it  will  be  useful,  but
WITHOUT  ANY  WARRANTY;  without  even  the  implied  warranty  of MER-
ANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU  General
Public License for more details.
\" }}}

.SH "SEE ALSO" \" {{{
.BR alff (1)

Homepage: http://alff.rfc2324.org
\" }}}

.SH AUTHOR
Maximilian Wilhelm <max@rfc2324.org>

\" vim:foldmethod=marker
